Coercion is a very important topic in JavaScript, and like I mentioned previously in the introduction
of this course, working with data is extremely important.
That's what we do as developers and an understanding of coercion is crucial to working with data.
So let's just go to the basics, what is coercion?
Well, it's just changing one data type to another data type.
And there are only two types of coercion.
The first type is explicit. And we're going to get into details later, but just so I don't leave you hanging,
here's an example of an explicit coercion.
Remember how we've (previously) typed the Number function and we pass in a value and it converts it to a number? That is us
telling the interpreter to explicitly convert that value into a number.
That's just one example.
The other type of coercion is implicit.
And this just happens automatically by the JavaScript interpreter.
And again, we're going to be seeing examples, but just so you're not left hanging
here are a few examples of what happens automatically by the interpreter.
Ten
divided by string, value equals null.
And when we do an if statement, we normally have a condition and that condition is converted to a
boolean.
OK.
The number one rule you need to understand is that there are only 3 types of coercion.
It's not that difficult, just three types of coercion. You can coerce to a string, to a number or to a boolean.
And that's it.
Let's look at examples of each. First, strings.
Well, let's just start at the basics of combining strings and numbers.
And the way we normally do this is with the + operator. And we've already seen how operators work.
And whenever you use the plus or minus operator, the data types must be the same.
And if they're not the same, coercion will happen.
Let's have a quick look at an example. Here's a few examples on strings.
Let's first deal with implicit
coercion when it comes to strings.
So let's console.log, let's say, "50", and now we know 50 is a string. Say we want to perform a math operation
minus 10.
You can see, the output is 40. So what JavaScript has done in the background is it has automatically coerced
that string into a number. How cool is that! We can do another example console.log
what about "20" divided by two?
It has automatically coerced it, to 10.
What about explicit coercion
when it comes to strings?
Well, what's cool is we know we've got the Number function in JavaScript,
we've also got the String function, so we can go console.log
we can write the String function, and we can pass it a string like "123". How cool is that.
We can do the same.
Let's copy this, let's paste this and do
true.
But what's interesting, and I guess you can't see it on here,
OK, if I go String('123'), this 123 here is actually a string now.
I'll prove it to you. Let's define a variable "a"
and lets go console.log(typeof(a)).
And let's get rid of this console.log.
typeof(a).
So what it's actually done, is it's taken a number and it's coerced it explicitly into a string.
And we've just proven that now.
And it's the same with true.
It's exactly the same here.
let b equals string.
console.log(typeof(b)).
So you can see, we had a bullion, which we now converted to a string.
We've seen strings.
Now let's look at booleans.
Remember, this is another type of coercion.
There are only 3. We've looked at strings,
now we're looking at booleans. Booleans cause trouble for many experienced developers
but don't be intimidated by them.
Because once you understand it, again, it's not that difficult.
If you're using loop checks, you'll often need a boolean, or the value will have to be coerced to a
boolean.
Recall that there are only two possible results for a boolean coercion
true or false.
Let's jump over to the machine and have a look at an example.
(swoosh sound)
Let's now look at booleans.
Again, let's start with implicit coercion when it comes to booleans.
And this is relatively straightforward, we can just console log one is greater than two.
And you can see it's automatically coerced that into a booleans.
Here it's false.
What about if we did
console.log 4 equals 4.
What do you think that'll be?
Well, that's automatically coerced it to true. So you can see here, the JavaScript engine is implicitly coercing all of these
values into booleans, false or true.
And we use this a lot in JavaScript
so it's awesome that you understand it.
What about explicit?
Let's look at example, explicit coercion with booleans.
So we had the Number function for numbers.
We had the String function for strings.
And you guessed it, we've got the Boolean function for booleans.
And let me just say this, I think the easiest way to understand booleans is to get a grasp as to what
"falsy" values, because everything else that's not falsy will evaluate to true.
So here are the falsy values on the screen at the moment.
It's that simple. Anything else would evaluate to true, except for those falsy surveys.
So let's give an example here.
So if we type let a equals Boolean
four.
And we console.log "a", we're going to get true. The number 4 was not one of those falsy values.
If we use one of those falsy values,
if we use zero, for example, it's going to come out false. And its the same with null and undefined.
Null is false.
Undefined is false.
These are all types of explicit boolean values.
How cool is that?
And now we're finally on to the third type - Numbers. For an explicit conversion
just apply the Number() function.
We've seen this.
We've done this many times before.
But what about implicit coercion when it comes to numbers?
Well, that unfortunately is a little bit more tricky.
Why?
Because it can be triggered in many cases.
Implicit coercion can happen with comparison operators, the unary operator which we've already
seen, bitwise operators, math operators
"sjoe, there's a lot"! But don't be intimidated,
we're going to be going through all of these through the course and you'll start feeling comfortable.
Most of them are very, very intuitive.
Let's have another look at an example.
And now we're on to numbers.
OK.
What's an example of an implicit coercion when it comes to numbers?
Let me give you an example.
Let a equals four greater than three.
So I've used a string.
What do you think is going to happen. When I console.log "a", we get the answer true.
So what JavaScript has done, is it's implicitly coerced that string into a number. And we've already
seen examples of explicit coercion when it comes to numbers. Let b equals 123.
And we can console.log Number(b).
And this now is a number. It's coerced this to a number. I hope this is starting to make sense.
Well done.
And we've already covered the three types of coercion: 1) to string 2) to boolean 3) to number
but it wouldn't be quite complete if I just didn't mention equality, because some operations cannot be
run on values of different types.
So behind the scenes, JavaScript runs coercion to make our lives easier.
We know this.
This is what happens.
This is implicit coercion.
This is where the equality comes into it,
those equality signs. Whenever we compare two values using double == equals sign,
JavaScript will use coercion.
But what about if you don't want JavaScript to coerce?
What about if you actually want to check types between two values?
Well, then you can use what's known as strict equality, and that's using three === equal signs.
Hey, you're probably getting sick of this later.
I'm sorry.
One more, one more, one more quick thing on equality.
Let's just ... I'll just show you the difference between double equal sign and triple equality.
Let's say 'a' equals 40.
And let's say 'b'  equals "40".
One is a string. One is a number, we know that. What happens when we console.log(a == b)?
Well, it equals true.
But do you know why?
Because JavaScript has coerced that "40" string into a number.
But what happens when you put three equal signs here?
We're going to tell JavaScript not to coerce.
As soon as we do that, it says that they're not equal.
And we know that's right, because this is a string and a is number
And that's equality for you.
Let's get going.